# gxd_ht_learning

This project is about using machine learning to classify GXD HT experiments
from ArrayExpress as "relevant" for GXD to curate the samples ('yes' or 'no').

This project was started by summer student Yasmine Boukataya during summer 2017.
Continued by Jim.

Subdirectories

    Data/
        where the 'yes' and 'no' directories are holding the text for the
            already classified (training set) experiments that sklearn can
            read easily.
    SQL/
        the sql scripts for extracting the already classified experiments from
            the db.

    ModelTuning/
        Scripts to try different learning models and tuning their parameters.
        Most scripts are .py and produce various output text files to
            evaluate their performance.

        Python files vs. Jupyter notebook files: (I'm writing this down to
        think it through)

        The idea is to edit the python scripts directly rather than
            jupyter notebook files. So the .py files are the source files.

            The advantages of notebook files:
                - can see/run the python code and see its output all in one
                    browser page.
                - can include graphical output
                - if the code is split across multiple "cells", you can
                    interactively change code & (re)run cells individually.
                    However if you have to re-import a python (library) file
                    because of coding changes, you have to rerun all the cells
                    in order which is a pain.
                - can save the notebook as HTML and share this with people so
                    they can view it in their browser. It is prettier then
                    just text.
            Disadvantages
                - I cannot figure out how to use a python debugger in a notebook
                - The re-running problem above.
                - The text editing in the notebook is not what I'm used to.
                - I expect to have some scripts to pull data from the output
                    files generated by the tuning scripts to do some analyses.
                    For this I'll need text output files that I can parse.
                    I can easily get these output files from the python scripts
                    directly.

            There is a script py2notebook.py that will convert whenever we
            want to import a model/evaluation code into a notebook.

